# HMSApplication

Project Scope: During this recent pandemic of COVID-19, our hospitals had more patients than we could have imagen. This also showed us some flaws in our hospital system while managing patients. While there are some hospitals that have the own management system but it is not available for common people who wants the get themselves checked up. 
To overcome this problem we can build a web application which interacts with both patient and hospital faculties like receptionist, doctor, hospital admin etc.. A web application where the patient can visit, register/login themselves and book an appointment with any doctor who have registered themselves, receptionist can approve the appointment with doctor and the doctor there after can diagnose the patient suggest them medication, if any further test are required then the hospital faculty can send a personal to collect samples.

Introduction: Given what we have faced during recent pandemic, a hospital management system has now become an must needed for the hospitals. This would allow them to lower the burden on the staff member of the hospital. By this system many can do all the hospital related work using this web Application. All the appointments, checkup details, cancelation of appointment, doctor active/inactive can be monitored by the receptionist. Since the admin of the hospital will be recruiting the receptionist and the doctors therefor they would be providing all the login credentials to doctors and receptionist. Patient can register themselves and do their following works using the web application else if the patient doesn’t has the facility to register themselves then they can visit the hospital and ask the receptionist to do the work for them. After the confirmation of the appointment is done then the doctor can check and write the prescription with all the medications or else if any laboratory tests are required then they can forward the prescription to reception from where it can be further send to lab. After the lab receives the prescription they can contact the patient, send a personal to patients address and collect all the samples need. After the testing is done by the lab they can send back the reports to the doctor form where doctor can further proceed with the treatment.  

Our Objective: The objective of the this application is to reduce the load from the hospital for managing everything form manual to online system. This would also reduce the wait time in big lines to minimum. It would also allow the patient to book any appointment without waiting in lines and without visiting the hospitals. If any other pandemic arises then it would also allow reduce physical contacts with each other. Doctors can monitor all the past and present records of the patient and give the medication accordingly. 
